# GOV.UK Account Manager - Prototype

A Prototype to explore how users might authenticate, authorise their data to be exchanged, be informed of data use and manage their consent for it.

## Developer setup

### Prerequisites
You must have the following installed:
- Docker
- Docker Compose

### First time setup

The app uses `docker-compose` to quickly and easily bring up all required services you will need to develop this app.

This can be started from the root of the repo with:
` docker-compose up`

Keycloak expects to run on it's own namespace of `keycloak:8080`. This is essentially an alias for `localhost`. In order to get this running on Mac/Linux:
- Open up your `/etc/hosts`
- Add the line `127.0.0.1        keycloak`
- Save the file and exit

Navigating to http://keycloak:8080 should now bring up the keycloak admin interface.

You will now need to configure keycloak to match the expectations of the app.
- From the `keycloak:8080` "home page" visit the [admin console](http://keycloak:8080/auth/admin/master/console/)
- Login with the development username and password. (See [docker-compose.yml](/docker-compose.yml)) KEYCLOAK_USER & KEYCLOAK_PASSWORD
- Using the side tab navigate to the clients page
- Enter the edit screen for `admin-cli` and change the following settings:
  - Access type: Change from Public to Confidential
  - Toggle switch: Standard flow to enabled
  - Toggle switch: Service accounts to enabled
  - Toggle switch: Authorisation to enabled
  - Valid redirect URI: Enter "*" and press the plus button at the end of the input
- Save using the submit button at the bottom of the page.

Finally at you will need to update the KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_SECRET to match the one generated by your keycloak instance.
- At the top of the `admin-cli` edit screen navigate to the credentials tab
- Copy the greyed out "Secret" field, or generate a new one
- Replace the value of KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_SECRET in [docker-compose.yml](/docker-compose.yml) with your copied secret
- run `docker-compose restart`

### Sending emails locally

You'll need to pass a GOV.UK Notify API key as an environment variable
`NOTIFY_API_KEY`, and change the delivery method in [development.rb][]:

```ruby
config.action_mailer.delivery_method = :notify
```

You'll also need to set a `GOVUK_NOTIFY_TEMPLATE_ID`, which might involve
creating a template in Notify if [your Notify service][] doesn't have one.

The template should have a Message of `((body))` only.

[development.rb]: config/environments/development.rb
[your Notify service]: https://www.notifications.service.gov.uk/accounts

## Deployment to GOV.UK via concourse

Every commit to master is deployed to GOV.UK PaaS by [this concourse pipeline](https://cd.gds-reliability.engineering/teams/govuk-tools/pipelines/govuk-account-manager-prototype), which is configured in [concourse/pipeline.yml](/concourse/pipeline.yml).

You will need to be logged into the GDS VPN to access concourse.

The concourse pipeline has credentials for the govuk-forms-deployer user in GOV.UK PaaS. This user has the SpaceDeveloper role, so it can cf push the application.

### Secrets

Secrets are defined via the GDS cli and Concourse secrets manager,

You can view live secrets with an authenticated cloud foundry command:
`cf env govuk-account-manager`.

Secrets are managed by Concourse secrets manager.
Once added secret can be called using a double parenthesis syntax.

You can see examples called as params for instance in the [deploy-app task](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-account-manager-prototype/blob/master/concourse/pipeline.yaml#L25).

Concourse can also set them during a deploy using cloud foundry commands (eg. [See here in deploy-to-govuk-pass.yml](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-account-manager-prototype/blob/master/concourse/tasks/deploy-to-govuk-paas.yml#L48:L58))

Adding or updating a secret can be done with Concourse secrets manager and the [GDS cli](https://docs.publishing.service.gov.uk/manual/get-started.html#3-install-gds-tooling)

```
gds cd secrets add cd-govuk-tools govuk-account-manager-prototype/SECRET_NAME your_secret_value
```

To remove a secret:

```
gds cd secrets rm cd-govuk-tools govuk-account-manager-prototype/SECRET_NAME
```

You would also need to unset it from the PaaS environment. Which you can do with this command:

```
 cf unset-env govuk-account-manager SECRET_NAME
```
